The Joe Rogan experience.
He had, he had done it for such an important reason as well, which was to say,
uh, you know, we in Germany should have the right to be rude about Edmund,
particularly Edwin, who, you know, was promoted for mare to prime minister.
Now to president wants to be Salton. You know, I mean it, in a very bad man,
locked up more journalists per capita, I think, than any other, uh,
country in the world. Other than trying to,
which I don't think we can get the stats on, uh, uh, very,
very evil. I think, man, who,
who has led his country backwards in the last 20
years and is in the process of trying to destroy a wonderful country. And,
um, if you can't be rude about him,
if you can't pretend that he sleeps with animals, um,
which is what the German comedian started with, then somewhere down the line,
you won't be able to say anything about the imprisoned journalists either.
And so on. And since also, by the way,
people don't seem to spend most time worrying about the Turkish journalists,
everyone in prisons. Um, the least they paid attention when I said that, uh, um,
he and angler, Merkel got up to really filthy,
filthy acts in the zoo.
Well,
obviously the worst case of retaliation for humor is probably Charlie
up-to, right? Hmm. I mean, which is a terrible,
and unfortunately many people, um,
weren't defending the murder,
but we're talking the murderers. I mean, I think, yeah, how many,
I think it was 11 people that were murdered and ended up placement and a police
officer. Um, they,
but they were saying that instead of concentrating on the murder,
which was done completely out of this,
reinforcing their rules of their ideology and,
and retaliation for any mocking of that ideology, instead of that,
they were talking about how racist Charlie Hebdo was. Yeah.
There was a lot of that. In fact, my friend, Jamie Kilstein was a part of that.
He was on television did back in his super social justice warrior days
talking.
Don't you wish among other things that people said, no,
I'm not talking about something if they don't know about it. Yeah.
My guess was that until, until the murders,
I mean,
an infinitely small number of people knew about Charlene Abdo outside of France.
Right. I found myself in the wake of that, uh,
in studios with people who I know had just Googled Sharley up there the day
before I know that they just gone to Wikipedia and,
and read an English version of a claim about what that magazine was about.
Goes back to that thing about my point about the journalist and the Holocaust
denial thing that just route around a bunch of people being killed.
This doesn't seem to vindicate my side's ideology.
Therefore let me find what I can do to defame them. And oh, good.
Somebody at Charlie Abdo once did this cartoon that was off color.
And I can't understand what the, the, the words are beneath it,
but I'll I'll claim it's racist. I mean, people were actually doing that.
That actually there were, there was a, um,
there was one cartoon that was used against Charlie Hebdo after the massacre,
uh, that was a joke against the front Nastia now and the
claims they were making about the black woman in Sarcosy government.
But because they, the joke and the, which if you didn't speak French,
it wasn't clear apparently, but, but,
and if you knew nothing about recent French history,
you knew nothing about the social, the Sarcosy administration and the, and the,
and the ministry. In question, these people just went to it and said,
racist cartoon,
not noticing that the cartoon was actually a joke about racists,
but they didn't, they didn't bother to find that out. And I thought that,
I thought that whole thing among many,
many other things was deeply worrying from that point of view,
because it means that in the immediate aftermath of something,
it should be so clear.
A bunch of people can just try to reframe the narrative and re and
change the history of a publication.
Yeah. Um, claim it is just something different. And,
and for a lot of people, of course, that was very, um,
that was very convenient because after all,
if Charlene Optos staff actually were these racists, then you know,
you didn't need to worry too much about them or why you'd been silent on the
issues they'd spoken up about.
Yeah.
The narrative then been that these people had been mocking this
disenfranchised marginalized group right. In society.
And that they had it coming yeah. In some very strange way.
And it's part of me struggled with that because it was like,
is this P some people just have contrarian instincts everybody's going left.
They just go away. I don't like it. And they want to go the other way.
There there's so many people that have that instinct. And then there's,
as you said, before this, uh, headline mentality,
they read the headline and don't look any further into it.
Even if it's a headline about a headline, right. It's theirs,
that's all they need. They're armed with enough facts.
They slam their laptop down and start debating. Yeah.
And, um, and in that case,
as in many others totally lose sight of the only thing that matters,
the only thing that matters in that case being, is it ever right?
To make apologies for people walking into an office and
gunning down people for an opinion, you don't like be honest at,
which has to be, of course now has to be, has to be now. Yes.
And yet in these moments.
So we had one 20 years before with the rush of year for the satanic verses
affair. In these moments,
you discover that you don't have the allies on your side.
You thought you did in the wake of the rusty affair in 89. Uh,
it was people from the right and the left in Britain who started making excuses
for the Ayatollah. You know, uh, we had, uh, the,
the chief rabbi then of the UK Djokovics to his, to his shame,
said both Mr.
Bush and the Ayatollah has offended people's feelings as if someone rusty
had in, in, you know, who called on all novelists to go to Tehran, assassinate,
the Ayatollah, if they had a chance, um, you had, uh, um,
somebody like a right wing conservative minister, uh,
Jeffrey Howe, who said, that said that a Bush had done,
had really offended Britain.
He'd been rude about Britain as if that had anything to do with anything. Um,
there was, uh, one, um, there was one famous case of a,
of a conservative peer who said about Rushdie that he,
it wouldn't bother him.
If a group of young Muslims took Mr. Bush into an alleyway and taught him some
manners. Um, so,
and you had that from the left as well. Uh,
Bernie granted labor and P famously said at that point,
that burning books wasn't a problem for him. Um, and,
uh, that was when they were burning the satanic verses in Bradford. So,
so you get these weird coalitions of people who suddenly turn out not to get the
point, not to get the point, not want to defend.
And then of course you get the carrots to say things like, well,
it wasn't my sort of novel, you know, I didn't think a novel was all that good.
I had midnight's children.
I could cope with Sandy versus he lost me with a plot as if that means that then
you can call for the death of the author rather than just give it a bad review.
How is he now Salman, Rushdie still in hiding?
I know he does a lot of interviews now and it seems to be more relaxed.
Yes. Uh, there, he seems to be, I don't know, the, the specifics, he, um,
there was an assurance,
I think given some years ago in the labor year labor government,
that with Tehran, that they would not actively, uh, um, uh,
encourage the murder of Rushdie anymore. Um, and I say to them,
that's a freezing of relations, um, not unfreezing relations. Uh, but,
but the point I wanted to make was that that's, again,
we've all we've been through these things.
We know how it plays out over the challis, Abdo, uh, um, events,
uh, the murder of the staff and contributors to that magazine.
We knew in the immediate aftermath,
what was going on and that there were people who just wanted to
make excuses. And, and you still hear that everywhere. I mean,
I I've heard it on every single free speech debate in my adult life.
Um, I remember the diversity debate I was growing up.
And I remember in every one of the things in recent years,
from the Danish cartoons to the, uh, jewel Medina scandal, uh,
uh, publishing London's firebomb for publishing a novel,
it was actually amazingly phoning about Mohammed, uh, to Sharley Abdo.
And since you, you just get these,
this strange group of people from brightened left, some believers,
some non-believers who always just come up with these,
arguments and, and say things like, well, I didn't find the cartoon very funny,
or, or I never, I never took that magazine seriously.
I didn't think it was right when they did this. It's just,
they just don't for some reason,
have the fortitude to just the only thing that matters in the,
in the wake of that, which is no.
Do you think that's because Islam is unique in their
approach to anything that goes outside the lines of what they
feel is oh, absolutely. Acceptable. I mean, in terms of like,
they will murder you if you drop them off.
Yeah. This is, this is,
this is what's been described as the internalization of the Fatwah. Hmm. Um,
if, if, uh, I'm sure you've had this experience,
but it's actually worse now that the presumption is worse than the actual
reality. I have quite often people saying to me, no, I'd like,
like to write this piece about X. Uh, but I don't know if I can,
because you know, it might get a death sentence. And actually,
I always say, what are you talking about? Right. Um,
fortunately, so far,
I haven't given that advice in the person's end being in any way under any
actual danger let being killed. But,
and I think I might feel differently if that was the case. Um, but, uh,
but that's, but there was this an overcompensation occurring at the moment,
and it goes far, far within the,
within the boundaries of what actually could plausibly get you into any trouble,
whether or not the trouble is, you know, legitimate to get into or not. Um,
so that now, yeah, I've had many journalists in recent years,
particularly since Sharley up to it sort of sidle up to me and say, well,
I'd quite like to do this. I do. I don't dare. And then, I mean,
I'm talking about for like very basic reporting and things. Uh,
they're not people saying, Hey,
I've decided to do a great big cartoon of Mohammed with a great big deck and,
uh, you know, uh, having sex with the Pope or something, you know, I,
it's not that it's never,
that it's never people saying I'm really just so keen to draw
Muhammad today. Douglas, what did I do?
It never is that it's always something way, way, way down.
I'm thinking of even like saying something critical of certain
regimes. So,
so the internalization and the fact why since 1989,
which has been exacerbated now by the killings of Charlie Hebdo and elsewhere,
or the attacks on the, you know, as Posten in Denmark,
it means that we are in this period where, where people are really hyper,
hyper sensitive.
And they really shouldn't be because it really isn't that bad.
It's not as bad as they think, but this is, you know, you can do so much work.
If you, if you say to people,
I've got Kalashnikovs on my side. I mean,
the extent and people in free societies, I got a really,
really loathe to admit this, but it's the classic bounce.
There is the classic sort of a mob trick, you know, knocking on someone's door.
I'm very disappointed in you. But my friend,
my huge friend, uh, is, uh, is, uh, really angry.
And I'm just holding him back.
You can do an amazing amount of work if you're willing to pull that kind of
trick.
And if you can persuade people and it's actually the case that there are people
you're holding back, that you can make enormous inroads like that.
Well,
especially when there's actual evidence that people have been murdered and have
been absolutely.
One of the more fascinating things about Charlie Hebdo to me was the refusal of
any of the mainstream media to show any of the cartoons you had to go online.
And I felt like this was a,
they gave up the reins of information to the internet and it was,
it was a real transitionary moment in our culture.
Yes. Everyone went online to see what they, yeah.
That was the only thing.
Place to go apart from your parents. You know, I mean,
like they were still under the impression that these must be, you know,
incredibly pornographic cartoons that were really,
really viciously attacking somebody. Um,
but no most B anyone young can, uh,
could find this out for themselves and you're right. That they,
they gave up the, uh, the space to the net and they, they all, they all had,
again, these sort of rubbishy arguments of their own about it.
I tried in Britain to, uh, get the press to do it at one go,
uh, um, a couple of days after the massacre and, um,
got pretty close, uh, that if everyone's that sort of,
I am Spartacus tactic. If everyone did it at once, then it would be okay,
but it would make it easier. And the argument you always get about that is,
and it's a very persuasive argument is that the editor of the ma of the magazine
or newspaper might get protection. So,
but you know, a girl from the typing pool sort of thing, and,
uh, which is what happened actually in some of the standing versus killings and
stabbings and things, you know,
like the Norwegian translate as Japanese translate, you know, it's,
it's people who under no security protocol could possibly end up or getting
protected. Uh, and,
and on the basis of fearing that the boss almost always says,
no,